(Instructor) So let's start by understanding
what a VPC is.
So VPC is a Virtual Private Cloud.
And is a private network for you
to deploy your resources in, for example,
your EC2 instances,
a VPC is linked to a specific region.
So if you have multiple regions in AWS
and you have multiple VPC.
So here's an example.
Here's my VPC that I've created.
And within the VPC,
we can have subnets.
And a subnet is going to be a part of the VPC.
So partition of your network.
And that is going to be associated
with an availability zone.
So here's an example we have an AZ A.
And within an AZ we're going to have First of all,
a public subnet.
So this public subnet is special because it is a subnet
that is accessible from the internet.
As you can see on the diagram on the right hand side,
the public subnet has direct connectivity to the Internet,
and the internet can directly reach our public subnets.
Also, we can have a private subnet
and a private subnet is a subnet that is not accessible
from the internet.
We'll see how we can define a public subnet
and a private subnet later on.
So to define access to the internet
and access between the subnets so
that the resources can communicate,
we need to use Route Tables.
So the question is,
what do you put in a public subnet?
Well, when we did create our EC2 instances,
we created them in a public subnet.
But in a public subnet,
you can also put,
for example, a load balancer.
And in a private subnet,
which we don't have,
when we have a default VPC,
you could place your databases,
for example,
because they don't need access to the internet
and therefore they're going to be more secure.
So if we look at a VPC,
a more complete one,
we have the cloud of AWS, we have regions
within the region will have a VPC.
And the VPC will have what's called a CIDR Range,
which is a range of IP addresses
that is allowed within your VPC.
And then the VPC can go across two
or three availability zones.
So we have AZ1 that contains a public subnet,
and the private subnet and AZ2
which contains also a public subnet and a private subnet.
So in this example we have two AZ, one VPC, four subnets.
Two of them are public and two of them are private.
And we can launch EC2 instances.
In each of these subnets.
Finally, how do we define access to
the internet for these subnets?
Well, if we look at the same example as before,
say we had an EC2 instance in a public subnet,
for it to be able to access the internet,
we need to create what's called an Internet Gateway.
And this Internet Gateway will help our VPC instances
to connect directly to the internet.
So the VPC will be having an Internet Gateway.
And then the public subnet will have a route
to the Internet Gateway to be able to access the internet.
So fairly simple,
as soon as we have a Internet Gateway
and a route to the Internet Gateway that makes
the subnet a public subnet.
Now if you have an instance in a private subnet,
it is not going to be accessible from the internet.
But you may want to give it access to the internet
For example, to get updates for your operating system
or to download files.
So for this,
we can create what's called a NAT Gateway,
which is managed by AWS,
or in that instance,
which is self managed.
And that will allow your instances in your private subnets
to access the internet while remaining private.
So concretely, we create a NAT Gateway
or Nat instance in our public subnet.
And we create a route
from the private subnets to the NAT Gateway,
and from the NAT Gateway to the Internet Gateway.
And this will allow your private subnets
to get internet connectivity.
So that's it for the theory,
now I will just show you in the console what's
the default VPC and what is created for us.
So let's go in the Console of the VPC.
So I'll type in VPC.
And as was mentioned,
when we did create our account,
there was a default VPC created for us.
So this is what we observe
from here we have one VPC, three subnets,
one Route Table and one Internet Gateway.
So first, let's have a look at the VPC.
So if we look at the VPC,
we can see that this VPC is available
and we get the CIDR which corresponds to the IP
range of that VPC.
So if you want to know what this means,
you go to CIDR.XYZ,
which is a website.
And on this website you're going to enter
the CIDR you see here so 172
dot and then we have 31 00 16
so 31, zero, zero
and then 16
and this shows you the kind
of addresses range we're going to get.
So the first IP
is 172 point 31.01
and the last IP is 172 point 31
point 255 point 254.
And we get about 65,000 IP in this entire range.
So this is why when we've been creating EC2 instances
in our default VPC,
the private IP where within the range shown below,
okay, great. So we have our VPC.
And so far, it's good.
We have one CIDR block,
we could add more if you wanted to.
Next we want to look at the subnets.
So for this,
we go to subnets.
And we open this as a new tab.
And we can see that three subnets are created
for us in our VPC.
So each subnet correspond to a specific availability zone.
So for example,
this subnet right here is for eu-West-1a,
this subnet right here is for eu-West-1b.
And this right here for eu-West-1c.
And within each subnet,
we get a different IPv4 CIDR.
So if we look at this one
for example, for eu-West-1a, it is the same as before,
but slash 20.
So if we go to this website and do slash 20,
we can see what is the first IP and what is the last IP.
And then again,
this is a subset of everything we had from before.
So if we go back into our VPC,
our subnets excuse me,
and then look at this CIDR right here.
So this is a new CIDR's, point 16.0.
So copy this and paste it and shows you again,
the first IP and the last IP.
So we can have multiple subnets their partitions
within our VPC and each subnet in this example
Has 4091 available IPv4.
So if we launch an EC2 instance,
within a subnet,
an ipv4 will be used.
Okay. So we have three subnets,
corresponding to three AZ.
And so when we went into the EC2 Console,
I will show you this right now,
when we went to the EC2 Console,
and we launched an instance,
we're going to do it again,
launch an instance,
we had to choose the AMI type,
we had to choose the instance size
and then we had to choose the instance details.
The network was associated to the default VPC.
And for the subnets,
you have to choose the CIDR you want it to be in.
And these subnets correspond to AZ
and they correspond to the subnets
that we created right here.
So as an example,
if I create an instance in eu-West-1a,
so I'm going to create that instance,
do review and then launch
and then acknowledges our instance
is getting created automatically.
And if we look at
the private IP 172 point 31.6 point 131
this IP, is within the CIDR Range.
That has been defined, right here.
Okay, this is good.
So we understand better how it works.
And because this is a public subnet,
then this is why we were able to connect
to our EC2 instance,
and this is why our EC2 instance was able
to be used as a web server
and also, install different packages.
Okay, so this is good.
We understand better now
what goes on behind the scenes.
So next, what I told you about was
the Internet Gateway.
So the Internet Gateway here has been created already.
And it's attached to one VPC
so VPC can only have one Internet Gateway.
And this is what allows my EC2 instances in here
to get internet access.
If I do remove the Internet Gateway,
if I detach it,
I won't do it,
then I'm not going to be able
to access my EC2 instance anymore.
And for the Internet Gateway to be used,
it needs to be used by a Route Table.
So if I go back to my subnetS
and click on any of these subnets and go to the Route Table,
I can see there is a Route Table associated with it.
If I click on this Route Table,
this road table contains a Route in here
That says that if you're going within this CIDR,
you stay within your local VPC.
But if you're going anywhere else,
then please use the Internet Gateway.
This is a link to the Internet Gateway.
Well, this means that our instance has a Route
and within our subnets to the Internet Gateway,
and therefore it is a public subnet
and the EC2 instance can access the internet.
As I mentioned,
we don't have any private subnet in this example,
because it is a default VPC.
But if you wanted to as an exercise,
you could create a subnets.
It's more complicated,
I do this in my other courses.
And then you will need to also define
a specific Route Table.
Okay, finally, we are not using them
because we don't have any private subnets.
But you could create a NAT Gateway,
and the NAT Gateway would be associated with a subnet
and would allow your instances in your private subnets
to access the internet.
And this is more advanced.
You just need to know what it is at a high level.
Finally to clean up but do not forget
to take your instance right click
and terminate it to leave it clean after yourself.
That's it, I will see you in the next lecture.